Before going into the details of how to build the application,
let's talk about the different components of a web app.
A web app essentially has two parts; the front end,
which is what we see when navigating a website,
and the back end,
which are all the processes and data working behind the scenes.
When you open a web page,
you're looking at the front end.
You can think of the page as having three parts.
The first part is content,
which includes text, images, videos, and forms.
You control this content with a language called HTML.
The second part is the design, like the colors,
font styles, and layout,
all of which you manage using another language called CSS.
The third part includes all of the animations and
interactivity such as fade-ins, slideshows, and pop-ups.
The code to make this happen is written in a language called JavaScript.
The back end is responsible for running the web app.
But you don't actually see the back end when looking at a web page.
The back end includes the server where the website files are stored.
When you type in a web address and hit "Enter",
you're actually asking the server to send you the HTML,
CSS and JavaScript files that make up the front end of your web app.
A web app might also have a database as part of the back end.
The code that controls the server and
communicates with the database is all part of the back end.
You can code the back end in a variety of languages including PHP, Java, and Ruby.
Because you're already familiar with Python,
we are going to use Python for this lesson.